---
layout: post
title: Beeline Experiment Goes Live with a Mobile App to Enable Smart,
  Pre–booked Express Bus Rides
permalink: /media/media-releases/beeline-goes-live-with-mobile-app-enable-pre-booked-express-bus-rides/
date: 2015-08-05
description: Beeline app — commuters pre-book rides on express private buses,
  offering shorter travel time. It supports SG's Smart Nation goals and changing
  demands.🚍
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h3>The Infocomm Development Authority (IDA) and Land Transport Authority (LTA) have launched Beeline, a mobile app that allows commuters to pre-book rides on express private bus routes. </h3>
<p>LTA and IDA have partnered with private bus companies such as Bus-Plus
to operate the initial&nbsp;set of&nbsp;bus routes listed on the app.</p>
<p>Beeline is an experiment developed by IDA and LTA to explore how&nbsp;transport
networks can be&nbsp;made&nbsp;more adaptive to changing commuter demand.
The experimental private bus routes are computer-generated by analysing
historical travel patterns and crowdsourced suggestions on the Beeline
website. Since going live in April 2015, Beeline’s website has crowdsourced
about 3,400 suggested routes.&nbsp;This&nbsp;helps bus operators identify
routes with viable commuter demand for faster and more direct bus rides
and offer bus services along these routes. The Beeline app completes the
cycle by allowing commuters to book seats using these services. In addition
to providing more direct journeys for its commuters, Beeline experiments
with the possibility that&nbsp;bus routes and timings can be adapted&nbsp;in
response to commuter feedback and demand over time.</p>
<p>The first experimental bus routes started running on 3 August, with four
routes from Marine Parade, Pasir Ris, Punggol and Tampines to the Central
Business District (CBD) during the morning peak period. There is also one
route from the CBD back to Marine Parade during the evening peak&nbsp;period.
At least ten more routes&nbsp;are expected&nbsp;in the coming months.</p>
<p>Beeline users&nbsp;will be able to&nbsp;book single or multi-day tickets,
ensuring a guaranteed seat and a comfortable ride to work on working days.
With no more than five pick-up stops for each route, the journey would
be more direct and faster than&nbsp;taking&nbsp;public transport. Prices
are set by the bus operators, with introductory prices of $4 to $6 per
trip and discounts for every five days booked.</p>
<p>Bus-Plus is one of the key partners that listed bus routes on the Beeline
app and operated buses as part of the experiment. “Bus-Plus is excited
to support Singapore’s Smart Nation vision through efforts&nbsp;to continually
provide new and innovative transport solutions for commuters. Beeline will
provide commuters with another option in journey planning, and we are anticipating
positive commuter experience feedback on the first routes introduced.&nbsp;We
look forward&nbsp;to working together with LTA and IDA&nbsp;to progressively
roll out more routes.” said Benny Lim, Managing Director of SMRT Roads,&nbsp;which
will be running&nbsp;three of the Beeline routes.</p>
<p>Other operators&nbsp;who are&nbsp;listing buses on Beeline include Aedge
Holdings and Commute Solutions Group (<a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/media-releases/2015/08/Annex1pdf.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">sharetransport.sg</a>).
IDA and LTA welcome participation from other private bus operators interested
in listing routes on the Beeline app.</p>
<p>The Beeline experiment&nbsp;is expected&nbsp;to run until the first quarter
of next year, after which IDA and LTA will assess commuter response and
if the concept can be applied more widely. The Beeline app is&nbsp;available
for&nbsp;free on the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store under the
title “Beeline SG”. Commuters can learn more at <a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/media-releases/2015/08/Annex1pdf.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">www.beeline.sg</a>.</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>ISSUED BY INFOCOMM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE (IDA) AND LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY (LTA)</strong>
</p>
<hr>
<h4>Related Resources:</h4>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p><a href="/files/media/media-releases/Annex_1__Beeline_Routes.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Annex 1: Beeline Routes</a>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="/files/media/media-releases/Annex_2__Beeline_App.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Annex 2: Beeline App</a>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>About Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore</h4>
<p>The mission of the IDA is to develop information technology and telecommunications
within Singapore to serve citizens of all ages and companies of all sizes.
IDA does this by actively supporting the growth of innovative technology
companies and start-ups in Singapore, working with leading global IT companies,
and developing excellent information technology and telecommunications
infrastructure, policies, and capabilities for Singapore. For more news
and information, visit <a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/media-releases/2015/08/Annex1pdf.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">www.tech.gov.sg</a>.
Follow IDA on Facebook and Twitter.</p>
<h4>About Land Transport Authority (LTA)</h4>
<p>The Land Transport Authority (LTA) is a statutory board under the Ministry
of Transport of Singapore. LTA plans the long-term transport needs of and
spearheads land transport developments for our city-state. While serving
commuters by providing an integrated and user-friendly transport system,
LTA addresses&nbsp;wider&nbsp;issues such as sustainable development, economic
growth, and community life. We also work with leading companies to develop
innovative transport solutions and make Singapore’s transport system greener,
cleaner, and more people-centred. For information, visit <a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/media-releases/2015/08/Annex1pdf.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">www.lta.gov.sg</a> or
follow us on Facebook and Twitter.</p>
<h4>For media clarification</h4>
<p>Christopher KOH (Mr)
<br>Manager, Corporate and Marketing Communication
<br>Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore
<br>DID: (65) 6211 1709
<br>Email: <a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/media-releases/2015/08/Annex1pdf.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">christopher_koh@ida.gov.sg</a>
</p>
<p>Sumita d/o Sreedharan
<br>Assistant Manager, Media Relations
<br>Land Transport Authority
<br>DID: (65) 6396 1948
<br>Email: <a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/media-releases/2015/08/Annex1pdf.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">media@lta.gov.sg</a>
</p>
<p></p>