---
layout: post
title: Easier and more Secure Logins with the New SingPass Mobile App
permalink: /media/media-releases/easier-and-more-secure-logins-with-the-new-singpass-mobile-app/
date: 2018-10-22
description: SingPass Mobile app offers secure logins with fingerprint, facial
  recognition, or 6-digit passcode for digital government transactions.🔒📱
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h3>Easier and more secure logins with the new SingPass Mobile app.&nbsp;Users no longer need to enter passwords and carry physical tokens</h3>
<p>From today, all SingPass users can download the SingPass Mobile app from
Google Play or the App Store. With the new app, users can now log in using
their fingerprint, facial recognition (for selected smartphones) or a 6-digit
passcode. They no longer need to enter their passwords when performing
digital government transactions, such as checking CPF balances and applying
for HDB flats. Also, with SingPass Mobile, users based overseas will now
be able to use the app to transact digitally with the Singapore Government,
without the need for a physical token.</p>
<p>SingPass Mobile will be an additional option for SingPass users to log
in by 2-factor Authentication (2FA). The existing modes of SMS One-Time
Password (OTP) and OneKey token will continue to be available to SingPass
users.</p>
<p>Mr Kok Ping Soon, Chief Executive, of GovTech, said, “Every month, we
receive about 150,000 requests from SingPass users to reset their passwords.
The new SingPass Mobile app will offer a more convenient login option,
as users no longer need to enter their passwords to log in. SingPass Mobile
is another step towards our vision for citizens to access government and
private sector digital services securely with a single, trusted National
Digital Identity.”</p>
<p>To activate the SingPass Mobile app, SingPass users will need to complete
the following steps:</p>
<ol data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Download “SingPass Mobile” from the official app store (Google Play or
App Store). Check that the app developer is a “Government Technology Agency”.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Launch the app and complete a one-time set-up. Verify their identity using
an OTP sent via SMS, or generated by the OneKey token.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>SingPass Mobile also comes with enhanced security features to protect
the user’s&nbsp;personal&nbsp;data. For example, when the app detects any
potential security breach or the presence of malicious software on the
mobile device, the user will not be allowed to use the app on the device.</p>
<p>Users are reminded to only use their&nbsp;own&nbsp;fingerprint or facial
image to register on their smartphone, and not to share their 6-digit passcode
with other individuals.</p>
<p>The app will be progressively updated with new features to make it a one-stop
touch point for government digital services. Users can visit&nbsp;for more
information.</p>
<p><strong>Annex B : SingPass Mobile Videos</strong>
</p>
<h4>What is SingPass Mobile?</h4>
<p></p>
<div class="iframe-wrapper">
<iframe style="max-width: 100%;" height="400" width="100%" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dDrqT64ydd0?si=tgGHsGpU4u94JcRd"></iframe>
</div>
<h4>About Government Technology Agency</h4>
<p>The Government Technology Agency of Singapore (GovTech) is a statutory
board formed in October 2016 after the restructuring of the Infocomm Development
Authority.</p>
<p>Following the formation of the Smart Nation and Digital Government Group
in May 2017, GovTech is placed under the Prime Minister’s Office as the
implementing agency of the Group. GovTech works with public agencies to
develop and deliver secure digital services and applied technology to individuals
and businesses in Singapore. GovTech builds key platforms and solutions
needed to support Singapore as a Smart Nation. As a leading centre for
information communications technology and related engineering such as the
Internet of Things, Data Science and Application Development, GovTech also
enhances the capabilities of the Singapore Government in these domains.</p>
<h4>About Smart Nation</h4>
<p>Smart Nation is Singapore’s vision to be an economically competitive global
city and a liveable home. It is a whole-of-nation movement to harness digital
technologies to build a future in Singapore, improve living and build a
closer community, empower citizens to achieve their aspirations through
good jobs and opportunities, and encourage businesses to innovate and grow.
For more information, please visit.</p>
<h4>For media clarification</h4>
<p>Medha Lim (Ms)
<br>Senior Manager
<br>Communications and Marketing Group, GovTech
<br>DID: (65) 6211 1622
<br>Email:&nbsp;<a href="mailto:Medha_LIM@tech.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Medha_LIM@tech.gov.sg</a>
</p>
<p>Jacklyn Chew (Ms)
<br>Manager Communications and Marketing Group, GovTech
<br>DID: (65) 6211 0708
<br>Email:&nbsp;<a href="mailto:Medha_LIM@tech.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">jacklyn_CHEW@tech.gov.sg</a>
</p>
<p></p>