---
layout: post
title: New Two Factor Authentication features in Singpass to provide more
  convenience and accessibility
permalink: /media/media-releases/2020-12-16-singpass-2fa/
date: 2020-12-16
description: New SingPass 2FA features - Face Verification and Multi-User SMS.
  Boosting convenience, accessibility, and security for government digital
  services.
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>From 16 December 2020, SingPass users will have two new Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) options¹ when transacting with government digital services. The introduction of SingPass Face Verification and Multi-User SMS 2FA will provide more convenience and accessibility to government digital services securely. This is in line with Government’s efforts to build a digitally inclusive society by enabling digital access to government digital services for people from all walks of life.</p><h3><strong>Face Verification</strong></h3><p>With SingPass Face Verification, users can log in by entering their SingPass ID and password, followed by scanning their face on an Internet-enabled computer with a web camera, or a mobile device with a front-facing camera. Users without such devices can visit selected public locations equipped with this service, and more locations² will be added progressively.</p><p>This technology is embedded with security measures to protect against fraud. For example, liveness detection technology is used to detect and block the use of a photograph, video, or mask during the verification process.</p><p>“We recognise that there are users who might not be as digitally savvy or able to navigate computers or smartphones. SingPass Face Verification as an alternative 2FA will be especially useful as it reduces the need to key in additional information like One-Time Passwords (OTPs). This option also serves our overseas Singaporean community who might not have a locally registered number and are unable to receive SMS-OTPs,” said Mr Kwok Quek Sin, Senior Director, National Digital Identity.</p><h3><strong>Multi-User SMS 2FA</strong></h3><p>The Multi-User SMS 2FA is an extension of the existing SMS-OTP 2FA method. Users – who may require the assistance of others when transacting online – can opt to have their SMS-OTP sent to another SingPass user’s mobile number. For example, an elderly parent can choose to link his account to his child’s mobile number. With this, the child receives his parent’s SMS-OTP when the parent is transacting with SingPass. The child can then assist his parent in providing the 2FA to complete the transaction.</p><p>SingPass Face Verification and Multi-User SMS 2FA are launched ahead of the decommissioning of OneKey token in end-March 2021 – which was announced earlier on 31 March 2020. Together with SingPass Mobile and SMS-OTP, there are now four other 2FA options for the current OneKey token users. We are actively facilitating the remaining 120,000 OneKey token users to transit to these alternative 2FA methods, through direct mail, digital clinics and digital ambassadors.</p><p>¹ *There are currently three 2FA options for SingPass users - SingPass Mobile, SMS-OTP, OneKey token (to be decommissioned by 31 March 2021).</p><p>² *These locations currently include IRAS Taxpayer and Business Service Centre, Our Tampines Hub’s Public Service Centre and CPFB’s Bishan Service Centre, and more locations will be rolled out progressively.</p><hr><p><strong>ISSUED BY THE GOVERNMENT TECHNOLOGY AGENCY OF SINGAPORE</strong></p><hr><h4><strong>About Government Technology Agency</strong></h4><p>The Government Technology Agency of Singapore (GovTech) is the lead agency driving Singapore’s Smart Nation initiative and public or digital transformation. As the Centre of Excellence for Infocomm Technology and Smart Systems (ICT &amp; SS), GovTech develops the Singapore Government’s capabilities in Data Science &amp; Artificial Intelligence, Application Development, Sensors &amp; IoT, Digital Infrastructure, and Cybersecurity.</p><p>GovTech supports public agencies to manage enterprise IT operations and develop new digital products for citizens and businesses. GovTech is the public sector lead for cybersecurity, and oversees key government ICT infrastructure, as well as regulates ICT procurement, data protection and security in the public sector. GovTech is a Statutory Board under the Smart Nation and Digital Government Group (SNDGG) in the Prime Minister’s Office.</p><p>For more information, please visit <a href="https://www.tech.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">www.tech.gov.sg</a>. Follow GovTech on Facebook / Twitter / Instagram @GovTechSG.</p><h4><strong>For media clarification, please contact:</strong></h4><p>Hui Min TJAN (Ms) <br>Communications &amp; Marketing Group <br>Government Technology Agency of Singapore <br>Email: <a href="mailto:Tjan_Hui_Min@tech.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Tjan_Hui_Min@tech.gov.sg</a></p><p>Medha LIM (Ms) <br>Communications &amp; Marketing Group <br>Government Technology Agency of Singapore <br>Email: <a href="mailto:medha_lim@tech.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">medha_lim@tech.gov.sg</a></p>