---
layout: post
title: GovTech STACKx Data and AI 2023
permalink: /media/events/stackx-data-and-ai-2023/
date: 2023-05-16
description: Explore the future of AI at STACKx Data and AI 2023. Join experts,
  government leaders, and industry professionals on July 18 at Suntec Singapore.
image: /images/media/events/1920px_stackxdata_ai_banner_v2.jpg
variant: tiptap
---
<p></p><p>Join us at STACKx Data &amp; AI on 18 July 2023 at Suntec Singapore Convention and Exhibition Centre. At STACKx Data &amp; AI, you'll hear from experts on the latest technology trends surrounding Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the crucial role that Data plays in enabling its capabilities. We're excited to announce that the event will also feature discussions on Large Language Models (LLMs) and their potential to deliver powerful AI capabilities to various use cases, as well as the potential risks and concerns.</p><p>This event will be graced by Senior Minister of State, Dr Janil Puthucheary where he will be delivering the Opening Address. Be immersed in this one-day event packed with Data and AI knowledge sharing. We are excited to showcase the Government's use of AI and our exploration into Generative AI. Join us to gain inspiration and knowledge on how Data and AI can transform the public sector. Hear first-hand from Mr Chang Sau Sheong, Deputy Chief Executive, GovTech and Mr Jason See, Senior Director, Data Science and AI Division (DSAID), GovTech on how GovTech is delivering tech for public good with AI.</p><p>The programme includes:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Keynote presentations by distinguished AI leaders, e.g. Dr Michael Zeller, Head, AI Strategy &amp; Solutions, Temasek</p></li><li><p>Panel discussion</p></li><li><p>Presentations by government agencies</p></li><li><p>Presentations by DSAID product teams</p></li><li><p>Sharing by industry experts</p></li><li><p>Hands-on technical pre-event workshops</p></li></ul><p><strong>Date: </strong>18 July 2023 <br><strong>Time:</strong> 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM <br><strong>Venue:</strong> Suntec Singapore Convention and Exhibition Centre</p><p>Find out more about <a href="https://go.gov.sg/stackxdataai-gtcorp" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">STACKx Data &amp; AI 2023</a>.</p><p></p>